Every day we make choices
that can affect
our relationship with Jehovah.
When there’s a clear Scriptural command,
the right choice may seem easy.
But what if there’s not?
How can we be sure
we’re making a wise decision?
An invitation to our niece’s wedding arrived.
Thomas was excited about it.
I was excited too.
But the ceremony
was being held at a local church.
I wondered if it would still be OK
for me to attend.
Even though Thomas wasn’t yet willing
to accept a Bible study,
he gradually softened over the years
since I came into the truth.
I knew he understood why
I would never enter a church for worship,
but what about attending a wedding?
Jehovah approves of weddings.
That afternoon,
I went to help Amy plan a menu
for the pioneer school lunch coming up.
She noticed I was a bit distracted,
so I told her my concerns about the wedding.
But you’re not thinking of going, are you?
Amy sure had a strong opinion on the matter,
but I didn’t feel
she really understood my situation.
Although I appreciated her concern,
I felt like she was judging me.
The next day, I decided
to visit Charlotte and Allan
and ask their advice.
Like me, Charlotte had come into the truth
many years before Allan,
so they really understood my situation.
Is Amy right?
Would it be wrong to attend the wedding?
What would you do if you were me?
Charlotte explained that in situations
where there’s no specific Bible command,
it becomes a matter of conscience.
And what one person’s conscience allows
may be different from another.
The important thing
is that we make decisions
that leave us with a good conscience.
But how do I do that?
Dear Emma, it’s really a matter of training.
Allan showed me the scripture
at Hebrews 5:14,
where the apostle Paul wrote:
“Solid food belongs to mature people,
“to those who through use
“have their powers of discernment trained
to distinguish both right and wrong.”
But Paul didn’t just write those words;
he lived them.
He carefully studied
the principles in God’s Word.
And as a result,
he was able to make decisions
that left him with a good conscience.
So even when there’s no stated law
on a matter,
we can always find a Bible principle
that can give us insight into God’s thinking.
So I made it a matter of prayer,
and then I got to work.
I researched articles
in the Watch Tower Publications Index
and the Research Guide.
I found a really good thought
in chapter 2 of the “God’s Love” book.
I also read about others
who faced similar situations
and what Bible principles they found helpful.
Then I meditated on all these.
As I kept studying,
I was able to bring my conscience
in harmony with Jehovah’s spirit,
not just with my heart.
I realized that having
a Bible-trained conscience
doesn’t mean everyone
will always think exactly alike
—and that’s OK.
But if we train our conscience
by applying Bible principles,
it will guide us along in life,
so that each of us
can remain in God’s love.